# RISC-V AP-TEE TG Charter 

The RISC-V Application Platform - Trusted Execution Environment Task Group (AP-TEE TG) will collaborate to define the reference architecture for confidential computing on RISC-V platforms - including the ABI required to enable systems software to manage confidential workloads on a multi-tenant platform, while keeping the OS/hypervisor and entities that develop the OS/VMM and/or operate/manage the platform outside the TCB. The TG will design the interfaces to comprehend existing (ratified) ISA and ensure extensibility of the interfaces to new Architectural ISA extensions as required for security or performance of confidential workloads. In addition to the normative specifications mentioned, the TG will produce a security architecture analysis per the threat model agreed upon as a living (non-normative) document supporting security recommendations, implementation-specific guidelines and relevant standard protocols for attestation for implementers of the AP-TEE capability on their RISC-V platforms.

The proposed RISC-V AP-TEE task group will collaborate to define:

a. AP-TEE reference architecture and SBI extension interface (non-ISA) which specifies the TH-ABI and TG-ABI interfaces (normative) to enable the OS/Hypervisor to manage confidential workloads on a multi-tenant platform, while keeping the OS/hypervisor and entities that develop the OS/VMM and/or operate/manage the platform outside the TCB. The interfaces are defined between:
  1. A new platform-specific security service called the Trusted Security Manager (TSM) operating in RISC-V HS-mode and a general-purpose OS/Hypervisor executing in S/HS-mode - called the TH-ABI. The TH-ABI should cover aspects of: TVM creation and tear down, TVM measurement and attestation, TVM memory management and protection, TVM virtual-hart state management and protection, TVM execution and IO.
  2. A Trusted Security Manager (TSM) running in HS-mode and a general-purpose OS executing in VS-mode - called the TG-ABI. The TG-ABI should cover aspects the TVM is involved in: TVM measurement extension and attestation, TVM memory conversion, TVM IO and other services used from host

b. Architectural ISA extensions (normative) as needed for supporting confidential workloads. The interfaces in item a will be defined to be extensible to these ISA extensions. The TG will start with the programming interfaces and discuss if any architecture extensions are required. Any ISA extensions will be modeled as part of the ratification process via tools such as QEMU/Spike.

c. A security architecture analysis of the reference architecture as a living document supporting recommendations and implementation-specific guidelines (non-normative).

The goal of the AP-TEE interface specification is to enable open-source reference implementations of the RISC-V AP-TEE interfaces for platform-specific TSM implementations that enable confidential compute and trusted execution for different use case scenarios (Server, Automotive, Embedded etc.). To support this goal, a POC is defined that consists of: An SBI extension implementation for AP-TEE will be used as a reference implementation. A TSM implementation will be developed by the community as part of the ratification of the interfaces. The required changes will be made to the Linux/KVM host and guest software to validate the interface specifications.
